Prayer for Translators
by Kyabje Trulshik Rinpoche

om swasti
Oṃ Svasti!
kalzang nam dren tönpa shakyé tok
Guide for this fortunate age, crowning glory of the Śākya clan,
khen lop chö sum mé wön nampa sum
Khenpo Bodhisattva, Master Padmasambhava, Dharma-King Trisong Deutsen and the other two great
ancestral rulers,
tenpé drönmé ati sha la sok
Beacon of the Buddhadharma, Atiśa, and the rest—
da mé kyé chok nam la solwa dep
To all you peerless, most excellent of masters, we pray!

pak bö tokmé lotsa tu mi jé
Thönmi Sambhota, the first to translate from Sanskrit into Tibetan,
lo chen bairo nyak lo yeshé shyin
And the great lotsāwas Vairotsana, Nyak Jñānakumara,
kawa pal tsek chok ro lü gyaltsen
Kawa Paltsek, Chokro Lü’i Gyaltsen
shyang tön nanam nam la solwa dep
And Shyang Nanam Yeshe De, to you we pray!

rinchen zangpo loden sherab dang
Rinchen Zangpo, Ngok Loden Sherab,
drom tön la sok mawé wangchuk té
Dromtönpa Gyalwe Jungne and all the other powerful masters of speech,
lotsa nga chi drang yé namtar gyi
Countless lotsāwas of earlier and later times,
kadrin drenpé nying né solwa dep
Bringing to mind your kindness, we pray to you from the depths of our hearts!

dak chak nga dö gang zak lhak sam kül
In this age of the five degenerations, people like us merely feign a pure motivation.
gyalwé ka ten kunjung drenpa dang
Now, as we translate into our own regional languages
katub rigché wang gyur tekpa chok
The expressing words and the meaning conveyed in the statements of the Buddha,
khyepar rigpa dzinpé dé nö dé
The teachings of the vehicles leading from the origin, Vedic asceticism and supreme and powerful
transformative methods,1
ka ter dak nang tsa sum chökyong gi
And especially those of the piṭaka of vidyādharas,
sungrab yul lung so sö ké yig tu
The teachings of kama, terma and pure visions,
jö ché dra dang jö ché dön gyur la
And those related to the three roots and the dharmapālas,
galkyen barché mé ching sam gu drup
May we be free from adverse circumstances and hindrances, and may all our pure aspirations be
accomplished!

ngön chön lo pen nam kyi tuk kyé shyin
In keeping with the wishes of the great lotsāwas and paṇḍitas of the past,
ten dang drowa yong la men né ni
May we bring benefit to the teachings of the Buddha and to all beings,
dzam bu ling du gyal ten rin po ché
And may the precious Buddhadharma spread throughout the world,
yar ngö dawé kun khyab trashi shok
Developing like the waxing moon, and bringing auspiciousness to all!

In response to the request made by the English bhikṣu Tenzin Jamchen (Sean Price) and also later
on by Lotsāwa Chökyi Nyima and the lotsawas of Lerab Ling, together with the offering
of a silk scarf, I, the completely ignorant one known as Chökyi Lodrö, who bears only the
outward signs of a buddhist monk, made this aspiration and wrote it down auspiciously on
the 16th day of the 10th month of the Wood Bird year (16th December 2005). Jayantu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2006.
↑ On these categories see A Brief Presentation of the Nine Yanas by Alak Zenkar Rinpoche: https://www.lotsawahouse.org/tibetan-masters/alak-zenkar/nine-yanas