The Attainment of Immortality
A Prayer for the Long Life of Sogyal Rinpoche
by Kyabjé Trulshik Rinpoche

om svasti, mijé tönpa tubpé wangpo dang
Oṃ svasti! Lord of Sages, teacher in this world of sorrow,
chimé tsé tayepa nampa sum
The three deities of immortality and limitless life,
sangye nyipa pema kara sok
Padmākara, the second Buddha—
tsé yi lhatsok nam kyi gelek tsol
May all the deities of long life grant all that is excellent and good!

orgyen pemé bö kyi tokmé bang
Among the Tibetan disciples of Padmākara of Orgyen
dorjé düjom yeshe gyumé ku
The foremost was Dorjé Dudjom. The magical embodiment of his wisdom,
gö kyi dem tru samshyin sipachen
Who also took rebirth consciously as Rigdzin Gödem,
tertön lerab lingpé dü kün kyong
Was the treasure revealer Lerab Lingpa: may he protect us at all times!

gang dé trulpa lé sé mö nang ngor
In the perceptions of those of us who have devotion, and whose karmic connections have awakened,
this emanation of Lerab Lingpa
chunö dumar dawé zuknyen shyin
Appears, just as the moon reflects in countless vessels of water.
takhob dul chir pemé ponya khen
The emissary of Padmākara, he has come to guide those in distant lands,
shyabzung mingyur taktu shyuk soldeb
I pray that his life is firm and strong—that he remain with us always and forever!

kalden duljar nangwé sönam zuk
His form is an expression of the merit of us fortunate ones whom he is to guide
gyalten chi dang ngagyur tendzin gang
He upholds the teachings of the victorious buddhas in general, and those of the Early Translation
school in particular,
tsen dzok nangnyen mitün mepé ku
His form is entirely pleasing, a magical display of all marvellous signs.
pomé mishik takten tsoshyé sol
I pray that he live forever, in the unchanging, indestructible sphere of being!

sönam jewé trün lé tsangpé yang
His speech, born of his million-fold merit,
nyenjeb tok ta bar du gewé tam
Is the melodious utterance that is good in the beginning, middle and end,
gyalwé sung rab tek chok chö kyi dra
I pray that he live long, in order to proclaim unceasingly and meaningfully,
gakmé tsenden drok chir shyabten sol
The sound of the Dharma of the Supreme Vehicle, the excellent speech of the buddhas!

tröpa kün dral zakmé yeshe kyi
Free from ordinary concepts, his inexhaustible wisdom
tingdzin miyo ösal nyukmé shi
Is the unwavering samādhi of clear light—the genuine and unconditioned nature of being.
yingrig zungjuk khakhyab dorjé tuk
His vajra mind is the unity of space and rigpa, pervading everywhere.
takpa gyün gyi khorlor tsoshyé sol
I pray that he live long, in continuous and everlasting stability!

gang gi shyepa nyishyön sarpa yi
His enlightened intent, like the newly risen sun,
gang dul ten drö pemö tsal yangpo
Shines on the lotus grove of the teachings and the beings to be nurtured.
küntu shyepé trinlé khakhyab kyi
May this serve as the cause for us all to enjoy the splendid banquet
gatön pal la chöpé gyur gyur chik
Of his enlightened activity, which shines everywhere, throughout the reaches of space!

detar soltab mönpé ré dré gang
With this prayer of ours, may everything which we aspire and hope for,
chöchen chönyi tendrel den tu dang
Through the power of truth of the interdependence of phenomena and their true nature,
yeshe chenden sungmé trinlé kyi
And through the activity of the guardian deities, endowed with the eye of wisdom,
yongsu drubpé tashi pal du shok
Be completely accomplished, amid all splendour and auspiciousness!

I was requested to compose a prayer, both extensive and profound, for the long life of the excellent
Sogyal Rinpoche, who upholds the extensive lineage of Padmākara in the western hemisphere.
This request was made by students of Sogyal Rinpoche—Ané Damchö and others of the
Rigpa saṅgha—who were attending the drupchö ceremony of Tendrel Nyesel held at Tupten Do-ngak
Chöling. Their request was accompanied by such offerings as fine long scarves of the
five colours of the buddha families. In response I, the one called Ngawang Chökyi Lodrö (Trulshik
Rinpoche), a follower of Śākyamuni, wrote this on the fifth day of the ninth month
of the Wood Bird year (2005). May our aspirations be realized!