The Quintessential Blessing: A Guru Yoga
by Kyabje Trulshik Rinpoche

The preliminaries, refuge and bodhicitta:
chok sum kündü lamar kyab su chi
I take refuge in the Lama, embodiment of the Three Jewels,
dro kün ten der gö chir semkyé do
And generate bodhicitta, so as to place all beings in the state of lasting bliss.
The main practice, generating the support:
rangnang nöchü dak shying salwa yi
My perception of the environment and its inhabitants as a pure field is clear,
dün khar rinchen sengtri pé dé teng
In the sky before me, atop a precious lion throne and cushions of lotus and sun,
palden lama gyurmé ngak gi wang
The glorious Lama, the elegant bhikṣu
chökyi lodrö gelong gek nyamchen
Gyurme Ngawang Chökyi Lodrö
nam sum chögö ngurmik dzinpé gar
Clad in the three saffron robes,
nang la rangshyin mepé ngang du sal
Vivid, clear, yet without self-nature.
The seven limb practice for the accumulation of merit:
go sum chaktsal chötrin gyatsö chö
I prostrate with body, speech and mind, present an ocean of offering clouds,
diktung kün shak gang gi namtar la
And confess all negative actions and downfalls;
yi rang chökhor kor shying nya ngen lé
I rejoice in the ultimate liberation of all, request you to turn the Wheel of Dharma, implore
you not to enter nirvāṇa,
mi dar tsoshyé soldeb gé tsok ngo
But to remain; and dedicate all merit.
Pray intensely with:
gyurwa mepa deshek nyingpö tuk
Unchanging heart, the Buddha-nature,
ngak tsikwang chuk shyenpen chö kyi sung
Altruistic lord of words, Dharma speech,
lodrö tsen ku jetsün lama la
Venerable master, Kāya, with intelligence’s name;
nying né solwa deb so jingyi lob
I beg you from my heart, please bless me!
Recite the name mantra:
om ah guru akshara wagindra dharma mati siddhi hung hung
oṃ āḥ guru akṣara vāgindra dharmamati siddhi hūṃ hūṃ
The conclusion, receiving the four empowerments and so forth:
lamé ku lé özer rim chikchar
Light rays emanate from the Lama’s body, serially, and then all together;
rang gi neshyir timpé wang shyi tob
They dissolve into my four places and I receive the four empowerments.
tuk yi chik dré zab shyi trödral ngang
The Lama's heart and my mind merge as one, and within this profound ground, free of elaboration,
dön gyü tokpa powé ngang du a
The transference of the realization of the ultimate tantra….Ah.
gewé dro kün jetsün lama yi
Through this merit may all beings achieve the state of the Venerable Master
gopang tob ching tashi künkhyab shok
And may auspiciousness pervade all!

Although it was awkward for me to compose something like this, and I felt very apprehensive
about it, Kachö Tsering Palmo-la, praised by the tertön Orgyen Kusum Lingpa as the incarnation
of Chamza Ahkar Saledrön, requested so strongly, along with the support of gifts, that
I could not refuse. Written by the Shakya monastic, the completely bewildered Ngawang Chökyi
Lodrö at Shechen Gompa, Nepal, during a break in the transmission of the Nyingma Kama.
May I and all others receive the blessings of the victors and their offspring, abrogating
our negative actions.

| Translated by Sean Price, 2018.